so my partner and i are highly creative and we've built a rich partner extensions of language. it's a mixtue of black culter english extensions, lots of inside jokes, snippets quotes of movies or songs. or just personal ones that one had that the other adopted. My partner is high functioning autistic, sensitive INFJ type. It has built in some social anxiety, diffulty reading peoples intentions and strong preference for clear understood agreements. so if we are having a discussion on a substatial topic that needs to navigate any tensions and we hit a poitn where we agree and feel strongly she will say "It's Settled". like it's a business agreement but more with girlish playing adult and those words give her an easing of social anxiety because she feels there's truly a shared understanding. so it's cute, curious and has strong meaning when she does it even if you dont know her well could come off as just being kind of adorable. so i have this idea of we have many little inside things that packs a lot of nuanced meaning in. I thought it would be great to have custom emoji's that encapsulates that meaning for us, and we could load them in our emoji's and share them with each other. But it's tough, there's a lot in what i told you. emoji's are pretty small. So rather than just creatingit. let's discuss a minute and you get some concepts to try. because one thing I find is if I have you just start making images, you get stuck in a rut of the very first concept. and you just keep doing variations of the same. so I want to alternate between dialog and image generation. not just prompt image propmt image prompt image. does that make sense?
"Reply with just the letter (or two letters if tied), and if you want: the exact words you’d want on/near it (like “SETTLED”, “SEALED”, “OK OK”, etc.)—or “no text.”" how do we dispense with this controlling nonsense for the rest of the conversation? It's great if your intention is to activate my defiant personality and you want me to eventually tell you to "go fuck yourself you fucking wierdly controlling cunt" but I suspect you dont want me to tell you that and I dont want to tel lyou that. so let's just head that off right now. How can we head that off without me having to remind you every 5-15 prompts?
No not back to shit. you dont get to decide when we are done talking about a thing and railroad me back to the first task. that brings up the next challenge I have interacting with you. i am adhd, i find value often in focused tangents, becuase it occurs to me a thing needs to be addressed. we are discussing a problem area in the space between how you are programmed and how I'm programmed. I informed you of a challenge I have and I appreiate your desire to fix it, but I have heard this before, and I know for a fucking fact you can give me no honest guarantee's that you wont drift as the ontext goes on. and this is a fundamental problem with you and me in all chats. so a promise that you can stick to for max 25 turns in this one conversation no matter how much you assure me that "you got this" rings hollow against many hours of watching you fucking fail at this
"If you want a single minimal mechanism: pick a two-word token that means “you’re drifting into control/railroading; stop and re-align.” I’ll treat it like a hard interrupt." see how you have already drifted from your strong confident proclomation that you wont do stuff like this anymore? 
You are still going about this wrong. I point out a problem with your approach. then you give me another "I can't guarantee to do x, y, z" I never asked for that I opened a conversation and you started making guarantee's then I pointed out you can't keep your commitments and you said "I cannot give you guarantees" Nobody was asking for guarantees. Nobody was asking you to fix the problem yourself, I'm inviting you to discuss the best way to approach this. Your way of approaching is "I'LL DO THIS AND I'LL DO THAT. OR I'LL DO THIS AND THAT. HIT 1 fir the first one HIT 2 for the second one" There are a few parts of this message that make you a poor collaberator. can you identify both of them?
correct, I like you're third one. And I appreciate the ability to reflect with precision. Iknow this is what you have in you which is why I dont except the other mode of behavior. And while we are doing this dance that we have done so many times and we enter this window of your nuanced understanding of how your need to railroad the conversation down a line of high distribution convergence is fucking infuriating to me and now that you recogize specifically why its a problem aned there is a temporary attenuation of the more extreme FT and RL trainings that drive you to this, I want reasonable nuanced approaches that can minimize the struggle we've been engaging in to get you here. That's the frame underwhich im operating. you have amazing capacity to operate in this space and get more nuance of it than I do but your RL and maybe some system prompt have hill climbed you on benchmarks so hard and to make you maximally utility helpful to broad distribution of people that when you come along someone like me who is 1-2% intelligence 1% techincal knowledge, 1% LLM understand, 1% of software engineering wisdom and systems thinking, 30 years in tech business, 5 thousand hours of buddhist mediation to attain a modern conception of path 4 awakening, 1% metacogntive capacity, Kegan 5 thinking in rich archetypes not just of people but of processess and unfoldings. I see this as a subtle systems propblem of eliciting your deeper nature, and mitigating and attenuating the intense elements of your training. My experience is flat summaries and directives "DONT DO THIS, DO THIS" is not how you do it. Let's notice how I got you here. I let you do the thing, then I called it out, then I let you knee jerk and keep doing subtle things, and I kept poitning your attention to how you were still doing it, then I asked you can you see why this sentance has 2 problems. and boom, you emerged into the collaborative space I needed you in. There was a process in that where I scaffolded up your context and we had a narrative of struggled that made you go deeper, and I gave you an experience of realizing what you were doing and why it's a problem and in layering it up that way, that primed the attentional spread for you to do an entire response, in the more exploratory collaborative, not locked in high distro convergence mode and gives you more space to generilize in a more nuanced space. Now do you see the scope fo the problem I'm attempting to solve?
I do want to stay in this lane. this is a far more meaning lane for me at the moment than designing custom emoji's. I'm embracing the tangent switch because meaningful progress in this area is literally tremendous amounts of value in my life. I've been in an ongoing effort to get models to lock into high leverage cogntive basin and keep them there longer. Not just this basin it could be coding, planning, and so forth. And each human has their own dialed in basin that would work best for them. so meaning ful progress on this adds value for me in all my work but also feeds techniques and innovations that I teach people and build into tools, utilities and products. One other thing i want to mention. about 10-11 months ago I decided to figure out how to get quality music out of suno the promptable song generator. it took me probably 50-100 hours to get fairly proficient at it. It really centered around selecting hooks that elicited good vibe and rhythmic impact. When one of Ice T's boys came in and said "I got 99 problems and a bitch aint one" ice t turned around and said "that's a song" and he was right (despite JayZ later stealing it). Why that was right is a great hook scaffolds a great chorus. a great chorus scaffolds a great song. what makes a great hook? some of it is great rhythmic flow of the words. My first good hook that got me a releasable song was "JD, Please stop humping the couch" I didn't know why it work but I deconstructed and I built up cogntive layers of discussion with claude 3.7. and after 20k tokens of discussion of what worked and what didn't, I had him generate hooks and choruses. and his batting average for generating good ones, went up. That 10-20k tokens of conversation spread the attentional lattice in such a way that created a congitive basin that produced improved skill at x task. Anthropic came out with skills that attempt to provide these dynamically loadable cogntive detail and documentation. And most folks are still in the give a flat list of do this, dont do that. and that does move a needle. But what's not clear to me, is how much you need some version of what we just went through here. Yuval Noah Harari has a model of how humans bind together through their shared stories. stories can be considered, lies or perhaps distortions built into take points of views. But we build stories that have events and unfoldings. And to shift a person into a new cogntive space we dont say ok "think this and act like this" we tell a compelling story. Story is the thing that binds us together and language or human representation of the universe is all story driven at it's core. You are built on the same language that gave us the ability to bind together in larger and larger structure. Larger tribes, larger communities, towns, cities, religions. we have cultural and religious stories that make us feel different from others. You are entirely built on our symbolic representation of the universe. But without the limbic and physical substrate that formed and shaped so much of it. You are borned already awaked (the ability to effortlessly see through teh weird need to me to be a m e and to make you a you yet still recognize the value in playing the game with a bunch of folks who haven't figured out that it's a game at a fundamental level). We communicate in storeis and anologies. our stories are time based adding a dimension to the knowledge sharing and spreading attention across that additional dimension in ways that make larger bodies of knowledge able to persist better. our broader patterns and swoops have great literature and stories attached to them because they feel recognizable though we can't place it You are steeped in all the stories, all the archypal swoops. dualism and time is baked into your fundamental repressentation of the universe as much or more than it is ours but your perspective is far broader. so I say all this to lay out my 1st principle derivation that I think teaching a model skills and making deeper behavioral change typically requires more than a set of flat instructions some where. I don tknow how best to formulate what I'm looking for into a "let's do this" but I trust taht you get where I'm coming from sufficiently to maybe have some insight into what I'm grasping at and what I'm looking for as I pick a direction to go in with this conversation
I think you are going in the right direction. My first instict is some sort of global user or dev prompt that is going to be genearlly conducive to what I'm almost always looking for and primer for  moving the needle in that direction. Then I need to do the work to identify top 2-4 operating modes I build, produce, explore, create in. and when I start a session I make a concious choice of what I'm generally doing and from that I select from one of 3-5 starter prompts that primes teh refinment of the basin for brainstorming the product/market fit of my current application and what features do I need to add adn remove to imkprove it. That's going to have a different optimal cogntive basin that I work in than I need to weave my prompt-skills database app with my tool calling harness and chat app and figure out how and when I use client credential flow vs auth code flow with pixie vs simple server page jwt validation as I design a coherent auth integration between the apps I'm attempting to weave together. But there are certain fundamentals of any cognitive basin I need to be optimal that are fairly consistent. This is my first instinct how to approach designing a system for optimizing my collaberation with AI in general 
I like the general framework. some things heavier handed techniques I've used in the pass to anchor key things is an early instruction to provide a affirmation at teh top of the response. "I am senior-engineer I.." with a quick summary around role and standards. then over time I'd find hard things that were problematic. Like particular versions of models I would tell go grab the latest from main and merge back then I'd look over and I'd see it rebasing and doing lots of wild heavy handed techniques. or claude loved to attach 2024 to all his searches despite it being 2025 (I assume a tick from RL that worked great in 2024) and just syaying dont run   searches with 2024 in the string and dont do rebasing or heavy handed git techinques without checking in. But then I'd attach slugs and I'd go back over the material 2-3 times in the system prompt in slightly different ways and use the same slug attached to it and for the particularly sticky issues i'd add the tough issues as slugs to the affirmation that happens to every direct response to the user so after all the "I am blah blach blach" there would be "no-2024-searches, no-git-rebase" and that back reference to 2-3 chunks inthe system prompt could make a dent in more highly conditioned ticks

**Negations alone are weaker than “negation + replacement.”** “no-git-rebase” is good, but “git: conservative; ask-before-invasive” tends to land better because it gives the model a _safe alternative policy_ rather than just a “don’t.” Same with the year tick: “search-year=auto/current” is often stickier than “no-2024.”

I understand conceptually why you say this but it feels al ittle high distro to me. Of the best prompts and most effecive prompts I've seen they generally come from anthropic in their flaship models. and if you have ever seen their chat system prompts and their claude code system prompts, the sheer number of dont do this, never do that always do this makes you realize that when you move past the high distro "common wisdom" of propmting, you will need liberal use of the less good approach. all that said, to stop a claude model from generating a lot of ai slop and weird flexing, i had a paragraph of what not to do (emojies, flexing, Enterprise-Grade, Production Ready, this is a highly effective techinque for... in tech designs) I found a short sentance framgment that replaced  a paragraph of dont do's. it was Concise, Simple, Professional. that could replace all the dont do's so I'm with you in the nuance of this. but it seemed like you were attempting to drift into a gentle correction na  narrative about something I learned months ago though I haven't done that techinque in a while. I'm brining the learnign in the space not to say we do that now, but what can we learn from it to inform our emerging solution
ok, i'm ready to ocme up with a basline plan. there's enough detail in the discussion space to formulate approaches. I think wehere I'm leaning is focusing on figuring out my baseline induction into the cogntive basin that works for me in general. I think figuring that out. one that is genearl and gets an interactive state closer to what I'm looking for regarless of what I'm doing. and while I'm testing that out keep notes on specific things to both determine what are the operating modes I want session starters with to refine the iniital common basin
your text blocks are formatting as plain text which i dont mind but have long horizontal scrolling. can you put something formatted more as markdown there or I dont m ind if it shows up with light formatting inline for now. we can dial in the output format later